welcome back to movietella
this time i'm gonna treat you to a 2002
science fiction action film called
equilibrium
libria a totalitarian city-state
established by survivors of world war
iii blames human emotion as the cause
for the war
any activity or object that stimulates
emotion is strictly forbidden
those in violation are labeled sense
offenders and sentenced to death
the population is forced to take a daily
injection of prosium 2 to suppress
emotion
libria is governed by the tetragrammaton
council led by father who communicates
propaganda through giant video screens
throughout the city
at the pinnacle of law enforcement are
the gramatin clerics trained in the
martial art of gun cada
clerics frequently raid homes to search
for and destroy illegal materials art
literature and music executing violators
on the spot
a resistance movement known as the
underground emerges to topple father and
the tetragrammaton council
the flag of libria
the four terra seconds on the flag
represent the tetragrammaton council
in 2072 john preston is a high-ranking
cleric whose wife viviana was executed
as a sense offender leaving him as a
single parent of two
following a raid preston notices his
partner errol partridge saves a book of
poems by w.b yates instead of turning it
in for incineration
he follows partridge to the nether a
term for regions outside the city and
finds him reading the book
after seeing preston partridge claims he
gladly pays the heavy price of feeling
emotion preston executes him as
partridge slowly reaches for his gun
preston accidentally breaks a daily vial
of prosium and is unable to replace it
before going on the next raid
brief episodes of emotion set in evoking
memories stirring feelings and making
him more aware of his surroundings
he intentionally skips additional doses
of prosium hiding them behind the mirror
in his bathroom
partridge is replaced with an ambitious
career-conscious brand who expresses
admiration for prestons in compromising
work as a cleric
on a raid they arrest sense offender
mary o'brien
to brand surprise preston prevents him
from executing o'brien saying she should
be kept alive for interrogation
brandt grows suspicious of preston's
hesitation
preston begins to feel remorse for
killing partridge and develops an
emotional relationship with o'brien
he uncovers clues that lead to meeting
jurgen leader of the underground
jurgen is planning to disrupt prozium
production to spark a populist uprising
and convinces preston that father must
be assassinated
vice council dupont meets with preston
to reveal that there is a traitor in the
upper ranks of the clerics
although dupont appears to know it as
preston he assigns him the task of
unmasking the traitor
relieved preston accepts and promises to
locate the underground's leadership
meanwhile o'brien is set to be executed
and jurgen advises against interfering
believing it could sabotage plans for
the revolution
unable to bear her death preston
attempts to stop the execution and fails
he has an emotional breakdown and is
arrested by brandt who brings him before
dupont
preston tricks dupont into believing
that brandt is the traitor
following brant's arrest preston is told
that his home will be searched as a
formality
he rushes home to destroy the hidden
vials only to discover his son who
stopped taking prosium after his mother
died already has
jurgen tells preston to capture the
leaders of the resistance to regain
government trust hoping it will get
pressed and close enough to assassinate
father
preston has granted an exclusive
audience with father only to discover
that brandt was not arrested it was part
of a ruse to expose preston and the
underground
dupont reveals he is father having
secretly replaced the original father
who died and that he doesn't take
prosium to suppress emotion
he taunts preston asking how it felt to
betray the underground
enraged preston fights his way through
an army of bodyguards to dupont's office
confronting and killing brant in a
katana battle
dupont and preston engage in a gun kata
showdown
preston wins as dupont pleads for his
life asking is it really worth the price
paying homage to partridge's last words
he responds i pay it gladly and kills
dupont
he destroys the command center that
broadcasts father propaganda
preston watches with satisfaction from
above as the underground destroys
prosium manufacturing plants signaling
the beginning of the revolution
if you enjoyed this video please like
and subscribe